1.3.1 Work/Variant Identifier

Create an unambiguous reference to the Work/Variant using a unique identifier and
indicate  the  type  of  identifier.  The  identifier  should  be  a  numerical  or  alphanumerical
reference. This identifier is for the content of the Work/Variant, not for a specific Item.
Manifestations  and  Items  have  their  own  Identifiers,  discussed  in  later  sections.  This
Work/Variant Identifier is shared by all Manifestations and Items associated to the Work.

In a way, a unique Work/Variant Identifier can have more value than a Work’s Title.
Titles can confuse through different spellings, translations, and are not unique (i.e., King
Kong). An Identifier refers to a specific Work/Variant and provides clear disambiguation
between Works when there is confusion.

There can be more than one Work/Variant unique identifier for the content. This com-
monly occurs when institutions have content assigned identifiers by various standards or
distribution agencies (ISAN, EIDR), or a government or other official body in the archive’s
country has assigned an identifier to the work. An institution will likely have its own inter-
nal Identifier as well, often auto-generated by an institution’s information or asset man-
agement system. For example, a Work/Variant may have these associated identifiers:

•
•
•
•

International Standard Audiovisual Number (ISAN)43
EIDR (Entertainment Identifier Registry)44
VIAF (Virtual International Authority File).45
Locally-generated

42  EN 15907, 4.2.2 Attributes of a Variant, variant type; YCR, 2.1.1 Nature of modification (change in content)
of expression, p. 48
43  www.isan.org
44  www.eidr.org
45  www.viaf.org



Use what makes sense for your institution; there is no recommendation for one par-
ticular resource. However, it is recommended that at least one unique identifier be in-
cluded in the record. It is critical that each Identifier be unique.

Examples:

Cabiria (Italy, 1914, Piero Fosco46)
Work identifier – ISAN number: ISAN 0000-0000-7B37-0000-J-0000-0000-H

Volver (Spain, 2006, Pedro Almodovar)
Work identifier – ISAN number: ISAN 0000-0001-6B16-0000-Y-0000-0000-9

Metropolis (Germany, 1927, Fritz Lang)
Work identifier – VIAF number: 219448355

The boxer (United States, Ireland, 1997, Jim Sheridan)
Work identifier – EIDR number: 10.5240/5896-B203-017D-11A5-EB7F-W
Work identifier – ISAN number: 0000-0000-60A5-0000-E-0000-0000-W
