0.2 Core elements of description9

These core points of description are listed with their corresponding terms as present-
ed in the manual. They represent an ideal minimum set of metadata for moving image
cataloguing.10

CORE CONCEPT

TOP-LEVEL ELEMENT

SUB-ELEMENT

Title

1.3.2  Title [Work]

Series / Serial10

1.3.2 Title [Work]

Cast

1.4.1 Agents (e.g. Cast, Cred-
its, Person, Organisation, etc.)
[Work]

Credits (including Pro-
duction Companies)

1.4.1 Agents [Work]

Country of Reference

1.3.3 Country of reference
[Work]

1.3.2.1 Title Type = Series/
Serial [Work]

1.4.1.1 Agent Activity = Cast
[Work]

1.4.1.1 Agent Activity =
Credit (use term for actual
role) [Work]

*Original Format

*Original Length

2.3.4 Format of a moving image
Manifestation [Manifestation]

2.3.4.1.2 Specific Carrier
Type: [Manifestation]

2.3.5 Extent of a Manifestation
[Manifestation]

2.3.5.2 Physical extent of a
Manifestation

*Original Duration

2.3.5  Extent of a Manifestation
[Manifestation]

2.3.5.3 Duration of a Mani-
festation

*Original Language

1.3.5 Language(s) [Work]

1.3.5.1 Language Term +

1.3.5.2 Usage type [Work]

9  Adapted from CEN TC 372 EN 15744 element set
10  EN15744 definitions “A series is a group of separate items related to one another by the fact that each item
bears, in addition to its own title, a collective title applying to the group as a whole. A serial is a type of “short
subject” work which is characterized principally by the episodic development of a story”. This Core Concept
is referencing the name of another Work that a Work may be “part of”, where the latter has been conceived
within the context/intention of being an element of a Series or Serial. It is not being used here as a Work/Vari-
ant Description Type. (See D.1 Work/Variant Description Types)



Year of Reference

1.3.4 Year/Date of reference
[Work]

1.3.4.1 Date Type [Work]

Identifier

As appropriate:

As appropriate:

1.3.1 Work/Variant Identifier
[Work/Variant] &/OR

1.3.1.1 Identifier Type
[Work/Variant] &/OR

2.3.1 Identifier [Manifestation]
&/OR

2.3.1.1 Identifier Type
[Manifestation] &/OR

3.1.1 Identifier [Item]

3.1.1.1 Identifier Type [Item]

Subject/Genre/Form11

Content Description

1.4.3 Subject/Genre/Form terms
[Work]

1.3.6 Content description (syn-
opses, shotlists, etc)

*The concept of “original” in this manual indicates the first known manifestation of
the Work, which is not determined by its release status. The concept of “original” must
be flexible enough to be applied to released and unreleased Works. For a released Work,
we tend to refer to the “original” Work as the first known release of the first known man-
ifestation. For Works that are not released (e.g., a home movie), the “original” Work is
simply the first known manifestation.11

See Appendix I.1 Example 1. Feature film in 3-level, 2-level and 1-level hierarchies as

an illustration.

Please see Appendix G, Elements of Description comparison for a list of all elements de-
scribed in this manual.

NOTE: For exchanging data, indicating the origin of the record is important (i.e., name
of the institution supplying the record). This data is typically located in a dedicated field
at the Work level and automatically generated by electronic systems. This corresponds to
CEN EN 15907, 6.2 – Record Source.
